DEVELOPMENT DIARY
=================

DECEMBER 19, 2011
-----------------

01:27
HAVE A MAJOR RUSH ON!!!!

DECEMBER 18, 2011
-----------------

23:40
Finally have other entities on the map like boats and fanboys.
Been doing some preparation for the submission process and some
general structural work to get the game mechanic involved. Also
have clipping (dependant on type of character, too).

21:50
Finally back at the office. Managed to do an hour at the in-laws'
which got me through creating a simple font and a text renderer
(which also supports arbitrary sprites from the sprite sheet :-))
Can I get the real game mechanic done in 3.75 hours?

17:29
A massive gap due to 3 hours' sleep, taking my daughter to see
Santa, then 4 hours to top up that sleep. And now at the in-laws
for the traditional Sunday lunch and slumming it on the Macbook Air.
Unsure how far I'm going to get in the few hours left but should
be back in the office by 10pm and get 3-4 solid hours in.. going
to see what I can scrabble together while here at the in-laws
though. Already failed with some game data persistence due to
the "muffin" system (a joke on "cookies" I'm guessing) inserting
extraneous and invalid crap into its filenames. Time to focus on
adding extra entities to the map.

------- BREAK -------

04:14
Amazing progress continues. This is what they call "in the zone" I
guess. I'm hoping I can get by on 4 hours of sleep instead of 5(!)
The game theme is a rich dude who wants to enjoy a quiet break
alone on his new tropical island but.. all his fanboys and the
press are on his tail. The aim of the game is to get them to leave
you alone. It's going to be a bit like a cross between tower defense
style games, bomberman, and shoot em up.

02:57
Major developments! I had a brainwave and have made huge progress
in implementing it. No time to explain as I have to go to sleep
soon :-(

00:38
Fixing both cross platform rendering and classpath/deployment
issues seems to be the lion's share of the activity! Rewritten
the rendering stuff to not use #scale anymore, instead doing
scaling on every draw and then using integer pixel offsets
rather than float offsets which were making textures render
with gaps on Windows (ARGH!!)

At some point I might even figure out a game mechanic.. but
on the plus side, movement and rendering now seem to be as
smooth as butter. Lumpy butter.



DECEMBER 17, 2011
-----------------

23:56
Turns out we need to get jogg, and only jogg, into the
same area as the 'native' libraries. For some reason
jogg's contents aren't ending up on the classpath automatically
as with everything else.

23:47
Wasted 30 minutes trying to get the latest build running on
Windows. Turned out it was generally a .jar problem. For some
reason, jogg-0.0.7.jar's classes weren't readily available
like those from the other jars.. who knows why? :-)

Either way, $CLASSPATH << 'lib/jogg-0.0.7.jar' fixed it on
Mac. Still working on it for Windows..

23:06
Got the concept of game 'states' involved. So there's now an
'intro' screen (with nothing on it!) and a gameplay state you
can enter (using Space).

The plan now is to come up with a very basic game mechanism on
top of the tiling idea so far so that I have a chance of 
completing something playable.

21:00
Due to family commitments, I am only now able to get back on the 
case again :-) I'll probably get about 12 hours of development
time in all, rather than 48, as I'm taking my daughter to see
"Santa" tomorrow!

We now have smooth movement of a non-character around a rather
non-level. Time to think of an actual idea and a "game" around
some of this stuff now. Hmm.

------- BREAK -------

06:53
Quite a lot of progress in the last 30 minutes. Started doing some
structuring and breaking things out into classes. Pushed rendering
off to specific classes. Introduced a 'character' of sorts and you
can now walk around a map. No game mechanic yet but there's something
to "do".

06:24
Some relatively smooth scrolling at least. Started to get tired so
will have a little think about an actual game idea, fiddle with
some sounds, and get ready to head home.

06:05
The code is like a very messy car wreck. But I've been learning
a lot. Picking up Slick which dealing with all the Java integration
and performance issues is proving the time suck. I'll need to
come up with a very simple game so I have a chance of finishing :-)

04:39
Hmm, it's using 200MB extra memory every second. That's not good.
(Addendum: turns out you need to do some explicit memory management)

04:01
Have learnt how to get scaled, pixelated graphics on a Java
graphics context. That took longer than expected. Now let's look
at some structure to all this..

03:00
Let's get this baby on GitHub!

02:55
Have a basic build on Windows now. Going to forget about Windows
for quite some time and get on to actual work ;-)

02:51
For some reason I've wasted a lot of time getting the build to run 
on Windows properly. I wanted to have the Slick and LWJGL stuff in
vendor but once packaged up, Windows is not playing ball. So into
lib/ they go.

02:00
Ludum Dare 22 begins!